_src/faq/index.md, before:

{
    "template": "../inc/page.template.source",
    "subtitle": "Frequently asked questions",
    "toc": true
}
---
# General

## What is Go kit?

Go kit is a collection of Go (golang) packages (libraries) that help you build robust, reliable, maintainable microservices.
It was originally conceived as a toolkit to help larger (so-called _modern enterprise_) organizations adopt Go as an implementation language.
But it very quickly "grew downward", and now serves smaller startups and organizations just as well.
For more about the origins of Go kit, see [Go kit: Go in the modern enterprise](http://peter.bourgon.org/go-kit/).

## Why should I use Go kit?

You should use Go kit if you know you want to adopt the microservices pattern in your organization.
Go kit will help you structure and build out your services,
 avoid common pitfalls, and write code that grows with grace.

Go kit can also help to justify Go as an implementation language
 to stakeholders like engineering managers or tech leads.
Go kit de-risks both Go and microservices
 by providing mature patterns and idioms,
 written and maintained by a large group of experienced contributors,
 and validated in production environments.

## Who is behind Go kit?

Go kit was originally conceived by [Peter Bourgon](https://peter.bourgon.org/about),
 but is now built and maintained by a [large group of contributors](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/contributors)
 from a diverse set of backgrounds and organizations.
Go kit is presently an all-volunteer effort, and has no commercial backing.

## Is Go kit production-ready?

**Yes**. Go kit is being used in production in several organizations, large and small.

## Which organizations are using Go kit?

Watch this space :)

# Architecture and design

## What is the design of a Go kit microservice?

<img src="onion.png" height=355 width=355 alt="Go kit service diagram" style="float:right;" />

Go kit models a microservice like an onion, with many layers.
The layers can be divided into three domains.

The innermost **service** domain is where everything is based on your specific service definition,
 and where all of the business logic is implemented.
The middle **endpoint** domain is where each method of your service is abstracted to the generic
 [endpoint.Endpoint](https://godoc.org/github.com/go-kit/kit/endpoint#Endpoint),
 and where safety and antifragile logic is implemented.
Finally, the outermost **transport** domain is where endpoints are bound
 to concrete transports like HTTP or gRPC.

You implement the core business logic
 by defining an interface for your service
 and providing a concrete implementation.
Then, you write service middlewares to provide additional functionality,
 like logging, analytics, instrumentation —
 anything that needs knowledge of your business domain.

Go kit provides endpoint and transport domain middlewares,
 for functionality like rate limiting, circuit breaking, load balancing,
 and distributed tracing —
 all of which are generally agnostic to your business domain.

In short, Go kit tries to enforce strict **separation of concerns**
 through studious use of the **middleware** (or decorator) pattern.

## Why is func main always so big?

Go kit encourages you to design your services as multiple interacting components,
 including several single-purpose middlewares.
Experience has taught me that the most comprehensible, maintainable, and expressive method
 of defining and wiring up the component graph in a microservice
 is through an explicit and declarative composition in a large func main.

This style reinforces two important virtues.
By strictly keeping component lifecycles in main,
 you avoid leaning on global state as a shortcut,
 which is critical for testability.
And if components are scoped to main,
 the only way to provide them as dependencies to other components
 is to pass them explicitly as parameters to constructors.
This keeps dependencies explicit, which stops a lot of technical debt before it starts.

For more general Go design tips, see
 [Go best practices, six years in](https://peter.bourgon.org/go-best-practices-2016/).

## How should I deploy Go kit services?

It's totally up to you.
You can build a static binary, scp it to your server,
 and use a supervisor like [runit](http://smarden.org/runit/).
Or you can use a tool like [Packer](https://www.packer.io/) to create an AMI,
 and deploy it into an EC2 [autoscaling group](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/latest/userguide/AutoScalingGroup.html).
Or you can package your service up into a container, ship it to a registry,
 and deploy it onto a cloud-native platform like [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io).

Go kit is mostly concerned with good software engineering within your service;
 it tries to integrate well with any kind of platform or infrastructure.

## How should I encode errors?

Your service methods will probably return errors.
You have two options for encoding them in your endpoints.
You can include an error field in your response struct, and return your business domain errors there.
Or, you can choose to return your business domain errors in the endpoint error return value.

Both methods can be made to work.
But errors returned directly by endpoints are recognized by middlewares that check for failures,
 like circuit breakers.
It's unlikely that a business-domain error from your service
 should cause a circuit breaker to trip in a client.
So, it's likely that you want to encode errors in your response struct.

[addsvc](http://github.com/go-kit/kit/tree/master/examples/addsvc)
 contains examples of both methods.

# Specific components

## Which transports are supported?

Go kit ships with support for HTTP,
 [gRPC](https://grpc.io),
 [Thrift](https://thrift.apache.org), and
 [net/rpc](https://golang.org/pkg/net/rpc/).
It's straightforward to add support for new transports;
 just [file an issue](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/issues/new)
 if you need something that isn't already offered.

## Which service discovery systems are supported?

Go kit ships with support for
 [Consul](https://consul.io),
 [etcd](https://coreos.com/etcd/),
 [ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/),
 and DNS SRV records.

## Do I even need to use package sd?

It depends on your infrastructure.

Some platforms, like Kubernetes, take care of registering services instances
 and making them discoverable automatically, via
 [platform-specific concepts](http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/services).
So, if you run on Kubernetes, you probably don't need to use package sd.

But if you're putting together your own infrastructure or platform with open-source components,
 then your services will likely need to register themselves with the service registry,
 or query the registry to find their dependencies.
In this situation, package sd will be useful.

## Which monitoring systems are supported?

Go kit ships with support for modern monitoring systems like
 [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) and [InfluxDB](https://influxdata.com/),
 as well as more traditional systems like
 [statsd](https://github.com/etsy/statsd),
 [Graphite](http://graphite.wikidot.com/), and
 [expvar](https://golang.org/pkg/expvar),
 and hosted systems like
 Datadog via [DogStatsD](http://docs.datadoghq.com/guides/dogstatsd/)
 and [Circonus](http://www.circonus.com/).

## Which monitoring system should I use?

[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io).

## Why is package log so different?

Experience has taught us that a good logging package should be based on a minimal interface
 and should enforce so-called structured logging.
Based on these invariants, Go kit's package log has evolved through
 many design iterations, extensive benchmarking, and plenty of real-world use
 to arrive at its current state.

With a well-defined core contract,
 ancillary concerns like levels, colorized output, and synchronization
 can be easily bolted on using the familiar decorator pattern.
It may feel a little unfamiliar at first,
 but we believe package log strikes the ideal balance between
 usability, maintainability, and performance.

For more details on the evolution of package log, see issues and PRs
 [#63](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/issues/63),
 [#76](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/pull/76),
 [#131](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/issues/131),
 [#157](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/pull/157), and
 [#252](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/pull/252).
For more on logging philosophy, see
 [The Hunt for a Logger Interface](http://go-talks.appspot.com/github.com/ChrisHines/talks/structured-logging/structured-logging.slide),
 [Let's talk about logging](http://dave.cheney.net/2015/11/05/lets-talk-about-logging), and
 [Logging v. instrumentation](https://peter.bourgon.org/blog/2016/02/07/logging-v-instrumentation.html).

## How should I aggregate my logs?

Collecting, shipping, and aggregating logs is the responsibility of the platform, not individual services.
So, just make sure you're writing logs to stdout/stderr, and let another component handle the rest.

Commit message:

FAQ: How does Go kit compare to Micro?

_src/faq/index.md, after:

{
    "template": "../inc/page.template.source",
    "subtitle": "Frequently asked questions",
    "toc": true
}
---
# General

## What is Go kit?

Go kit is a collection of Go (golang) packages (libraries) that help you build robust, reliable, maintainable microservices.
It was originally conceived as a toolkit to help larger (so-called _modern enterprise_) organizations adopt Go as an implementation language.
But it very quickly "grew downward", and now serves smaller startups and organizations just as well.
For more about the origins of Go kit, see [Go kit: Go in the modern enterprise](http://peter.bourgon.org/go-kit/).

## Why should I use Go kit?

You should use Go kit if you know you want to adopt the microservices pattern in your organization.
Go kit will help you structure and build out your services,
 avoid common pitfalls, and write code that grows with grace.

Go kit can also help to justify Go as an implementation language
 to stakeholders like engineering managers or tech leads.
Go kit de-risks both Go and microservices
 by providing mature patterns and idioms,
 written and maintained by a large group of experienced contributors,
 and validated in production environments.

## Who is behind Go kit?

Go kit was originally conceived by [Peter Bourgon](https://peter.bourgon.org/about),
 but is now built and maintained by a [large group of contributors](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/contributors)
 from a diverse set of backgrounds and organizations.
Go kit is presently an all-volunteer effort, and has no commercial backing.

## Is Go kit production-ready?

**Yes**. Go kit is being used in production in several organizations, large and small.

## Which organizations are using Go kit?

Watch this space :)

## How does Go kit compare to Micro?

Like Go kit, [Micro](https://micro.mu) describes itself as [a microservice toolkit](https://github.com/micro/micro/wiki/Architecture).
But unlike Go kit, Micro also describes itself as [a microservice ecosystem](https://micro.mu/).
It takes a broader view, encoding expectations and opinions about the infrastructure and architecture.
In short, I think Micro wants to _be_ a platform;
 Go kit, in contrast, wants to integrate into your platform.

# Architecture and design

## What is the design of a Go kit microservice?

<img src="onion.png" height=355 width=355 alt="Go kit service diagram" style="float:right;" />

Go kit models a microservice like an onion, with many layers.
The layers can be divided into three domains.

The innermost **service** domain is where everything is based on your specific service definition,
 and where all of the business logic is implemented.
The middle **endpoint** domain is where each method of your service is abstracted to the generic
 [endpoint.Endpoint](https://godoc.org/github.com/go-kit/kit/endpoint#Endpoint),
 and where safety and antifragile logic is implemented.
Finally, the outermost **transport** domain is where endpoints are bound
 to concrete transports like HTTP or gRPC.

You implement the core business logic
 by defining an interface for your service
 and providing a concrete implementation.
Then, you write service middlewares to provide additional functionality,
 like logging, analytics, instrumentation —
 anything that needs knowledge of your business domain.

Go kit provides endpoint and transport domain middlewares,
 for functionality like rate limiting, circuit breaking, load balancing,
 and distributed tracing —
 all of which are generally agnostic to your business domain.

In short, Go kit tries to enforce strict **separation of concerns**
 through studious use of the **middleware** (or decorator) pattern.

## Why is func main always so big?

Go kit encourages you to design your services as multiple interacting components,
 including several single-purpose middlewares.
Experience has taught me that the most comprehensible, maintainable, and expressive method
 of defining and wiring up the component graph in a microservice
 is through an explicit and declarative composition in a large func main.

This style reinforces two important virtues.
By strictly keeping component lifecycles in main,
 you avoid leaning on global state as a shortcut,
 which is critical for testability.
And if components are scoped to main,
 the only way to provide them as dependencies to other components
 is to pass them explicitly as parameters to constructors.
This keeps dependencies explicit, which stops a lot of technical debt before it starts.

For more general Go design tips, see
 [Go best practices, six years in](https://peter.bourgon.org/go-best-practices-2016/).

## How should I deploy Go kit services?

It's totally up to you.
You can build a static binary, scp it to your server,
 and use a supervisor like [runit](http://smarden.org/runit/).
Or you can use a tool like [Packer](https://www.packer.io/) to create an AMI,
 and deploy it into an EC2 [autoscaling group](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/latest/userguide/AutoScalingGroup.html).
Or you can package your service up into a container, ship it to a registry,
 and deploy it onto a cloud-native platform like [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io).

Go kit is mostly concerned with good software engineering within your service;
 it tries to integrate well with any kind of platform or infrastructure.

## How should I encode errors?

Your service methods will probably return errors.
You have two options for encoding them in your endpoints.
You can include an error field in your response struct, and return your business domain errors there.
Or, you can choose to return your business domain errors in the endpoint error return value.

Both methods can be made to work.
But errors returned directly by endpoints are recognized by middlewares that check for failures,
 like circuit breakers.
It's unlikely that a business-domain error from your service
 should cause a circuit breaker to trip in a client.
So, it's likely that you want to encode errors in your response struct.

[addsvc](http://github.com/go-kit/kit/tree/master/examples/addsvc)
 contains examples of both methods.

# Specific components

## Which transports are supported?

Go kit ships with support for HTTP,
 [gRPC](https://grpc.io),
 [Thrift](https://thrift.apache.org), and
 [net/rpc](https://golang.org/pkg/net/rpc/).
It's straightforward to add support for new transports;
 just [file an issue](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/issues/new)
 if you need something that isn't already offered.

## Which service discovery systems are supported?

Go kit ships with support for
 [Consul](https://consul.io),
 [etcd](https://coreos.com/etcd/),
 [ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/),
 and DNS SRV records.

## Do I even need to use package sd?

It depends on your infrastructure.

Some platforms, like Kubernetes, take care of registering services instances
 and making them discoverable automatically, via
 [platform-specific concepts](http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/services).
So, if you run on Kubernetes, you probably don't need to use package sd.

But if you're putting together your own infrastructure or platform with open-source components,
 then your services will likely need to register themselves with the service registry,
 or query the registry to find their dependencies.
In this situation, package sd will be useful.

## Which monitoring systems are supported?

Go kit ships with support for modern monitoring systems like
 [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) and [InfluxDB](https://influxdata.com/),
 as well as more traditional systems like
 [statsd](https://github.com/etsy/statsd),
 [Graphite](http://graphite.wikidot.com/), and
 [expvar](https://golang.org/pkg/expvar),
 and hosted systems like
 Datadog via [DogStatsD](http://docs.datadoghq.com/guides/dogstatsd/)
 and [Circonus](http://www.circonus.com/).

## Which monitoring system should I use?

[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io).

## Why is package log so different?

Experience has taught us that a good logging package should be based on a minimal interface
 and should enforce so-called structured logging.
Based on these invariants, Go kit's package log has evolved through
 many design iterations, extensive benchmarking, and plenty of real-world use
 to arrive at its current state.

With a well-defined core contract,
 ancillary concerns like levels, colorized output, and synchronization
 can be easily bolted on using the familiar decorator pattern.
It may feel a little unfamiliar at first,
 but we believe package log strikes the ideal balance between
 usability, maintainability, and performance.

For more details on the evolution of package log, see issues and PRs
 [#63](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/issues/63),
 [#76](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/pull/76),
 [#131](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/issues/131),
 [#157](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/pull/157), and
 [#252](https://github.com/go-kit/kit/pull/252).
For more on logging philosophy, see
 [The Hunt for a Logger Interface](http://go-talks.appspot.com/github.com/ChrisHines/talks/structured-logging/structured-logging.slide),
 [Let's talk about logging](http://dave.cheney.net/2015/11/05/lets-talk-about-logging), and
 [Logging v. instrumentation](https://peter.bourgon.org/blog/2016/02/07/logging-v-instrumentation.html).

## How should I aggregate my logs?

Collecting, shipping, and aggregating logs is the responsibility of the platform, not individual services.
So, just make sure you're writing logs to stdout/stderr, and let another component handle the rest.
